(Vegan-Recipes)

[cauliflower-tacos-with-cashew-crema]
INGREDIENTS
Sauce
1 green chile (such as serrano), finely grated
1 garlic clove, finely grated
¼ cup cashew or almond butter
3 Tbsp. fresh lime juice
Kosher salt

Assembly
3 garlic cloves, finely grated
¼ cup grapeseed or vegetable oil
2 tsp. ground cumin
2 tsp. smoked paprika
2 medium heads of cauliflower, cut into 1"–2" florets
Kosher salt
12 6"-diameter corn tortillas
1 small white onion, thinly sliced
Sliced avocado, sliced radishes, cilantro leaves with tender stems, and lime wedges (for serving)

RECIPE PREPARATION
Sauce
Using a fork, mix chile, garlic, cashew butter, lime juice, and 3 Tbsp. water in a small bowl to combine; season with salt. Set aside.

[link]
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/cauliflower-tacos-with-cashew-crema

Assembly
Place a rack in lowest position; preheat oven to 450°. Stir garlic, oil, cumin, and paprika in a small bowl to combine. Arrange cauliflower on a rimmed baking sheet and pour spiced oil over. Season with salt and toss to evenly coat cauliflower. Roast, undisturbed, until dark brown and crisp on the bottom, 15–20 minutes. Remove from oven and turn florets over. Continue to roast until second side is dark brown and crisp, 15–20 minutes longer.

Heat a large skillet over medium-high. Working in batches, toast tortillas in a single layer, turning halfway through, until warmed through, about 1 minute total. Transfer to plates.

Spread each tortilla with some reserved sauce; top with cauliflower. Garnish with onion, avocado, radishes, and cilantro. Serve with lime wedges for squeezing over.


[tofu-and-summer-vegetable-curry]
INGREDIENTS
4 Tbsp. virgin coconut oil or extra-virgin olive oil, divided
1 14-oz. package firm or extra-firm tofu, patted dry, cut into ½" cubes
Kosher salt
2 medium onions, coarsely chopped
⅓ cup red curry paste
2 large zucchini, cut into ½" pieces
1 large or 2 small Japanese eggplant, cut into ½" pieces
8 oz. green beans, trimmed, cut into 1" pieces
1 13.5-oz. can unsweetened coconut milk
Lime wedges, cilantro leaves with tender stems, and coarsely chopped salted, roasted peanuts (for serving)

RECIPE PREPARATION
Heat 2 Tbsp. oil in a large skillet, preferably nonstick, over medium-high. Add tofu in a single layer and cook, turning over once, until cooked sides are golden brown, about 4 minutes. Transfer to paper towels to drain. Season with kosher salt.

Heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil in a large pot or high-sided skillet over medium-high. Add onions and a generous pinch of salt and stir to coat. Cook, stirring often, until softened, about 4 minutes. Stir in curry paste and cook, stirring often, until darkened in color, about 2 minutes. Add zucchini, eggplant, and green beans and cook, tossing to coat, until vegetables are softened and starting to brown in spots, 5–7 minutes. Pour in coconut milk and ½ cup water and bring to a simmer.

Add tofu to pot and stir gently to combine. Cook until warmed through, about 3 minutes. Season with more salt if needed.

Divide curry among bowls and add a generous squeeze of lime juice to each. Top with cilantro and peanuts.

[link]
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/tofu-and-summer-vegetable-curry

[broccoli-and-date-salad]
INGREDIENTS
6 Tbsp. grapeseed or other neutral oil
2 tsp. ras-el-hanout
1 garlic clove, finely grated
2 Tbsp. fresh lemon juice
2 Tbsp. white balsamic vinegar or white wine vinegar
1 Tbsp. honey
Kosher salt, freshly ground pepper
¼ cup raw pistachios
1 small shallot, finely chopped
1 medium jalapeño, finely chopped
6 cups finely chopped broccoli florets and peeled stems (from about 1 bunch)
1 cup finely chopped cilantro
⅓ cup finely chopped pitted dates

RECIPE PREPARATION
Heat oil, ras-el-hanout, and garlic in a small saucepan over medium-high until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in lemon juice, vinegar, and honey. Season vinaigrette with salt and pepper; set aside.

Toast pistachios in a small skillet over medium-low heat until golden brown, about 4 minutes. Transfer to a cutting board and let cool; finely chop.

Toss pistachios, shallot, jalapeño, broccoli, cilantro, and dates in a medium bowl. Drizzle dressing over and toss to coat. Taste and season with more salt and pepper if needed.

Do ahead: Salad can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.

[link]
https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/broccoli-and-date-salads
